## Interacting with Shell

### Topics

- `apropos`
- `pwd`
- `cd`
- `less`
- `mkdir`
- `rmdir`
- `mv`
- `cp`
- `ls`
- What `~`, `.` and `..` mean in directory listings

### Honorable Mentions

- `script`: Records terminal interaction for replay
- `man`: Opens formatted manual page for a command
- `.bashrc` file: Configures the Bash shell

### `apropos`

helps the user when they don't remember the exact command.

For example, type `apropos email messages` to see which commands may have that functionality.

### `pwd`

Prints the current working directory.

You may provide options:

- `L` option
- `P` option

See the man page.

```bash
$ pwd
/home/yujinkim
```

### `cd`

Change the current working directory to some other directory.

```bash
cd [DIRECTORY]
```

### `less`

used to read contents of text file one page(one screen) per time

```bash
less [FILE]
```

### `mkdir` and `rmdir`

`mkdir` creates an empty directory, while `rmdir` removes an empty directory.

### `mv` and `cp`

Moves (or renames) a file (`mv`).

Copies around a file (`cp`).

```bash
cp [OPTION]... [-T] SOURCE DEST
mv [OPTION]... [-T] SOURCE DEST
```

### `ls`

Lists directories.

```bash
ls [OPTION]... [FILE]...
```

Simply calling `ls` lists the files and directories in the current folder.

`ls -al > [FILE]` lists all files and directories in the listing format, and redirects the results to the file called `[FILE]`, creating it if nonexistent.

`ls -l` looks up information---most importantly, the permission---of a file.

The command `ls` highlights soft links to directories as light blue.

### `~`, `.` and `..`

- `~`: The tilde is a Linux "shortcut" to denote a user's home directory
- `.`: denotes the current directory
- `..`: denotes the “parent” directory
