## Identity, Ownership and Permission

- identity
- permission

### Identity

A file or directory is owned by some user and groups that which the user belongs.

That file or directory can also be accessed by anyone if made possible.

### Permissions

- `r` (read): For files, retrieving contents. For directories, making a listing.
- `w` (write): For files, changing contents. For directories, modify listing.
- `x` (execute): For files, executing. For directories, making it current directory.

### Permission delineation

1. User
2. Group
3. Everyone else

### Code

1. `r`
2. `w`
3. `x`

Bits: You need three bits to represent them, so 0-7 are used to represent it.

666: 110 110 110: user rw-, group rw-, everyone else rw-.

### Who can change permissions?

Only the owner or the superuser can change the permissions of a file.

### Utilities

- `sudo`: Allows a user with correct permissions to execute something as another user. You must be listed in `/etc/sudoers`.
- `groupadd`: Creates a new group. Only logged-in superuser can make groups. All groups are listed in `/etc/group`.
- `groupdel`: Remove a group. Only for logged-in superuser.
- `gpasswd`: Change the password for a group.
- `newgrp`: Allows a user to log into a new group (change the group ID)
    - The user will be asked for a password if:
        - The user does not have a password but the group does, OR
        - The user is not recognized as a group member but the group has a password.
    - The user will NOT be asked for a password AND denied permission if:
        - The user is not a member and there is no group password.
    - The user will NOT be asked for a password AND granted permission if:
        - The user is the superuser.
- `chgrp`: Changes group ownership of files. An unprivileged user can only change it to a group that they belong.
- `useradd`: Creates a new user and configures it.
    - The command line options
    - Values specified in `/etc/default/useradd`
- `userdel`: Deletes a user account.
- `passwd`: Changes the password of a user.
- `su`: Switches the current user ID to that of another user.
- `sg`: Executes a command as a different group ID.
