## File System

- The _index node_ (`inode`)
- `ls -i`
- `stat`
- What is a _link_?
- Types of links
- `ln`

### Index Node

An index node or `inode` is a data structure object that stores information about a particular file.

Every index node has information about:

- File type (executable, block special, etc.)
- Permissions
- Owner
- Group
- File Size
- File access, change and modification time
- File deletion time
- Number of links (soft and hard)
- Access Control List (ACLs)

Each index node has a unique number that identifies it.

An index node stores the physical location of a file on the disk.

### Links

Links are aliases to either an index node or another link.

**Hard links** are names to an index node.
If multiple hard links exist to the same index node, then they are all independent.
So, if one hard link is destroyed, then the other link(s) is/are unaffected.

All files are hard nodes.

The `ln` tool does not permit the creation of directory hard links.

**Soft links** are aliases of another link.
They are, like, shortcuts.
A soft link is dependent on the target link to which it points.
If the target link gets destroyed or moved, then the soft link will not be notified.
Therefore, the soft link will not work, or be **broken**.

### `ls -i` and `stat`

The `ls -i` shows inode number to the left

`stat` shows a lot of information, including the inode number.

`ln to from` creates a hard link from `from` to `to`.

`ln -s to from` creates a soft link from `from` to `to`.